Hello, and welcome to working with full join. In this video, we will learn about
creating a result set by joining all rows from two tables. At the end of this lesson,
you will be able to explain the syntax of the Full Join Operator and interpret the result set.
A join combines the rows from two or more tables based on a relationship between
certain columns in these tables. There are two types of table joins: INNER JOIN and
OUTER JOIN. There are three types of OUTER JOIN: LEFT OUTER JOIN, RIGHT OUTER JOIN,
and FULL OUTER JOIN. This video explains FULL OUTER JOIN, or simply called FULL JOIN.
The FULL JOIN keyword returns all rows from both tables. That is all rows from the
left table and all rows from the right table. So, the FULL JOIN could return a very large
result set. The terms left and right refer to the table on the left-hand side and
the right-hand side of the diagram. In this diagram Table 1 is the left table.
Based on our simplified library database model, we want to select all rows from the Borrower
table and all rows fro m the Loan table. We do this by identifying the column in each
table to link the tables. In this example, we do this b y matching the BORROWER ID.
The column BORROWER ID exists in both tables. This is the syntax of the SELECT statement
for a FULL JOIN. In the FROM clause, we identify the Borrower table as B , and the Loan table as L.
This use of the letter B and the letter L is referred to as an alias.
In this join, each column name is prefixed with either the letter B or L. This helps indicate which
table each column is associated with. Using an alias is much easier than prefixing each
table name with the whole table name. In this example, the criteria is the BORROWER
ID column. For a FULL JOIN, we select all rows from the Borrower table and all rows
from the Loan table. And here is the result set. The result set shows all rows
from the Borrower table and all rows from the Loan table. There are eight rows in the
result set.  All eight records from the Borrower table are listed with the corresponding
data from the Loan table. However, in t he last three rows, the columns BorrowerID and
Loan Date from the Loan table do not have a corresponding BorrowerID, s o a NULL value
is returned. A Null value is returned because Borrowers Peters, Li, and Wong have never
taken a book out on loan. Therefore, there is no corresponding BorrowerID value in the
Loan table. Now you can explain the syntax of the Full Join Operator and interpret
the result set, including a NULL value.  Thanks for watching this video.